HTTP Messages

Client and Server communicate or exchange data through Http messages or HTTP messages are how data is exchanged between a server and a client.
HTTP messages are the key in using HTTP; their structure is simple, and they are highly extensible.
There are two types of messages: 
1.Request Http message - requests sent by the client to trigger an action on the server,
2.Response Http message - the answer from the server.

HTTP messages are composed of textual information encoded in ASCII, and span over multiple lines.
HTTP/1.1, and earlier versions of the protocol, these messages were openly sent across the connection and can be read.
HTTP/2, the once human-readable message is now divided up into HTTP frames, providing optimization and performance improvements.
HTTP/2 framing mechanism adds a new intermediate layer between the HTTP/1.x syntax and the underlying transport protocol, without fundamentally modifying it: building upon proven mechanisms.

Web developers, or webmasters, rarely craft these textual HTTP messages themselves: software, a Web browser, proxy, or Web server, perform this action. 
They provide HTTP messages through config files (for proxies or servers), APIs (for browsers), or other interfaces.

Structure Of Http Messages

HTTP messages(requests or responses), share similar structure and are composed of:
1. A start-line : Start line describes the requests to be implemented(in case of Request message)
                  or its status of whether success or a failure(in case of response message).
                  This start-line is always a single line.

2. An optional set of HTTP headers: which specifies the request or describes the body included in the message.   

3. A blank line: that indicates that all meta-information for the request has been sent.

4. An optional body: which contains data associated with the request (like content of an HTML form), 
                     or the document associated with a response. 
                     The presence of the body and its size is specified by the start-line and HTTP headers.
